>> Scott Moss: I wanted
to talk about react and
how it plays into some of
the new things in next.js.
I don't wanna go too deep because,
a lot of it is probably gonna be covered,
and some of the newer react courses that
are gonna be taught by other instructors
like Brian Holt, but there's a lot of
crossover between what react is doing and
how next.js takes that and
puts their own spin on it.
I just want you all to know
what is actually react and
what is actually next.js.
So, this is something I'll be talking
about throughout the entire course, but
this is just the preamble.
So things like server components, you've
probably heard of that first on next.js in
the app directory, but server components
is not something that was created by
next.js, it's actually part of react.
It's a React thing, it is now included
in React 18 react 19 But it's there.
Next.js just took a gamble and
decided to implement it early on,
cuz they knew that they have
close ties with the React team.
They knew that that was going to be
finalized, so they went ahead and
adopted it early on.
And incorporated into the framework, which
is where I think a lot of the heat that
they got for the app directory when it
first came out, people were, what's this?
This is kinda crazy, but it took until
React, the React team was like, no, yeah,
we're doing server components,
that's a thing.
Then now that's a standard, and then now
it's okay, next year has to make sense
'cause it's such an easier
way to do server components.
Components, just like when there was
static or server side rendering.
Yeah, you can do service side
rendering and react, but
like who wants to make that framework?
I don't, so next day,
I subtract that away for you.
So it's kinda the same concept, but
again, they didn't create server.
They didn't create server side rendering,
they didn't create server components.
They just give you a bunch
of opinions around it.
And that the same thing is true for
client components.
They didn't create that as well.
That directive where it says use server,
use client,
that is a React thing.,
that is not a next.js thing.
I know they got a lot of heat for that,
why do you got to put this
at the top of the file?
He didn't come up with that,
that's what with the reacting when.
Streaming a suspense, this was actually
introduced in earlier react versions, but
like, suspense, man,
that's been a dream since 2015.
I remember they started talking about
that and like it's now fully realized,
in my opinion, in such a way that
you don't have to think about it and
you'll see how we incorporate it.
But this basically is also
something created by React,
being able to show some type of
component while your UI is waiting for
some data to load and
then have a fallback there.
That's something that the React team
created, next.js didn't create that.
They just have a bunch of opinions around
it like everything else, and they make it,
in my opinion, super simple.
Streaming, also, that is something
not actually created by React, but
was made possible by React.
Just the nature of being able to
render components on the server, but
basically just being able to stream
down chunks of a UI at a time,
without having to block a whole page, it's
not something that is unique to Next.js.
It's just React has made it possible, and
then they built
an implementation on top of it.
So, but we will be talking
about some of that stuff.
The cache function,
that's actually something new to React 18.
I think it was maybe in beta in React 18,
React 19 is definitely there,
but this is like a per record quest
minimalization of server side actions.
We're gonna dive into this a lot if you're
like, what is this guy talking about?
But no reason I bring this up because I
was looking all right at the other day and
there was so much hate for
this [LAUGH] On the next AS team.
But again, React team made this,
this is not the next.js's function.
It's just something the React team made,
which is actually quite useful.
If you ever done GraphQL on a server, this
is very similar to a data loader where you
are caching,
things on a per-request level.
So you're not doing multiple
database queries for
the same thing on 1 single request.
So it's actually quite useful.
Transitions, transitions are basically you
wanna change some state in a component,
but you don't want the UI to be blocked.
So if you use a U State
hook that blocks the UI.
So what if you wanna change some state but
not block the UI?
That's what a transition is.
I think next day's got a lot of heat for
this because the React team didn't
really finalize it, or
they didn't have good use cases for it.
And at the same time, server actions were
really not that useful in the Next.js docs
that we're talking about.
You can use this transition thing and
then they try to explain how to use it.
Well, now, because it's part of React
in the docs and the Next.js docs,
they kind of just link out to it, they're
here, we're not even gonna talk about it.
Click here and
go read it from the React docs,
cuz this is just too crazy to explain.
We will be using transitions, and
we'll talk about it and how I use it, and
then server form actions.
This is the one where I think for
most JavaScript developers,
they were what, why are we doing this?
Why did we go from doing a sync, a secret
is functions on form submit, you know,
doing it on submit handler, to now
we're doing actions on the server side.
This kinda feels like PHP or
Laravel or something like that.
And if you ever use one of those
frameworks, if you look at Next.js 13 and
beyond, it feels just one of those
frameworks for better or for worse.
So form actions, again, that's something
that is made possible by React,
the framework, and not so much of Next.js.
So Next.js is just really building on
some of these foundations with their own
opinions.
There really isn't anything new that
they're introducing here other than their
opinions on top of these standards.